1-	Introduction

The issue of household power consumption has become a global concern due to the continuous growth of power resources and demand, resulting in an increase in energy costs (Chiavarviglio, Mellia, & Neri, 2009).
The primary aim of this assignment is to investigate the electric power consumption dataset of a specific household situated in Sceaux, which is located approximately 7km from Paris, France. The objective is to develop a reliable model for analysing and predicting the user’s power consumption data. The main focus of the analysis is to determine whether there is a significant relationship between the household’s global active power and electric equipment usage by constructing a linear regression model that can provide accurate predictions of power consumption based on electric equipment usage.
The linear regression model will be used to predict the power consumption, and the quality of the regression model must satisfy the assumptions. These assumptions include no multicollinearity, linearity, homoscedasticity, normality, and independence. Failure to meet these assumptions may result in unreliable linear regression analysis, requiring alternative models or methods to be employed.
The analysis of the dataset will include the use of descriptive statistics, data visualisation, correlation analysis, multiple linear regression analysis, analysis of results, and evidence of assumptions` satisfaction or unsatisfaction. Lastly, the findings will be presented with a conclusion about the regression analysis and model`s reliability.
From data exploration and regression analysis of the individual household electrical power consumption dataset, this study seeks to contribute to the understanding of household power consumption and economy. The findings could improve households to optimize their electrical power consumption and reduce energy costs, benefiting the environment and society.

2-	Data Exploration

The dataset of Individual Household Electrical Power Consumption for this study is from the Machine Learning Repository – UC. 
Data information: 
•	Measurements of electric power consumption in one household with a one-minute sampling rate over period of almost 4 years, between December 2006 and November 2010. The active energy consumed every minute (in watt hour) is represented by global_active_power*1000/60 – submetering 1 - submetering 2 - submetering 3, electrical equipment not measured.
•	The dataset contains some missing values the measurements (nearly 1,25% of the rows). All calendar timestamps are present in the dataset but for some timestamps, the measurement values are missing: a missing value is represented by the absence of value between two consecutive semi-colon attribute separators. For instance, the dataset shows missing values on April 28, 2007.
•	Variables information:
1.	Date: date in format dd/mm/yyyy
2.	Time: time in format hh:mm:ss
3.	Global_active_power:  household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt). Global active power is the power consumed by appliances other than the appliances mapped to Sub Meters. Global active power is the real power consumption i.e., the power consumed by electrical appliances other than the sub metered appliances. It is basically called watt full power.
4.	Global_reactive_power: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt). Global reactive power is the power which bounces back and forth without any usage or leakage. It is the imaginary power consumption. It is basically called wattless power.
5.	Voltage: minute-averaged voltage (in volt).
6.	Global_intensity: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere). Intensity is magnitude of the power consumed. Also called as strength of current.
7.	Sub_metering_1: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven, and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered).
8.	Sub_metering_2: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light.
9.	Sub_metering_3: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.

2.1- Approach
The Python programming language was used to import a dataset with 2075259 rows and 9 columns into a Jupyter notebook. The dataset was checked for duplicates, and it was found that the data contained the strings ‘nan’ and ‘?’. To address this issue, both were converted to NumPy’s NaN and removed, resulting in a dataset with 2049280 rows and 9 columns. The variables were initially imported as objects but were converted to ‘float64’. The ’Date’ and ‘Time’ columns were combined into a ‘data_time’ column using datetime format (yyyy-mm-dd), and new columns for ‘Year’, ‘Month’, and ‘Weekday’ were added. The ‘Date’ and ‘Time’ columns were then dropped to facilitate further exploration of the dataframe. The focus of the study will be on ‘Global_active_power’ by electric equipment categorized into ‘Sub_metering_1’, ‘Sub_metering_2’ and ‘Sub_metering_3’.
The information shown in Table 1, the summary statistics reveal that the dataset contains 2,049,280 reading across 9 columns. The average value for ‘Sub_metering_3’ is higher than that of Submetering 1 and 2, with value of 6.56 watt-hour. Additionally, the average value for ‘Global_active_power’ is 1.09 kilowatts. Notably, the minimum reading for all submetering variable is zero. Conversely, ‘Sub_metering_1’ has the highest maximum readings of 88.00 watt-hour, surpassing the maximum readings for Submetering 2 and 3.
Table 1: Summary statistic of the household electric power consumption dataset.

 
3-	Statistical Inference
This study aimed to examine the potential relationship between household electric power consumption’s Global active power and Submetering 1, 2 and 3 (electric equipment). After exploring the dataset, it was found that Global active power consumption was higher during winter and weekends. Additionally, ‘Sub_metering_3’ had the highest average, indicating that water heaters consume more power during the winter months.
We performed linear regression analysis and tested the model’s assumptions. The multicollinearity assumption was satisfied since the correlation matrix did not show high correlation between the independent variables. However, the linearity assumption was not fully satisfied, despite scatterplots showing moderate positive linear correlation between ‘Global_active_power’ and Submetering 1, 2 and 3 and negative correlation with Voltage.
The homoscedasticity assumption was rejected because the scatterplot of the residuals showed unequal spread across all independent variable values. To address this issue, we suggest log transformation the dependent variable and using auto-regressive conditional heteroscedasticity models to model error variance.
The normality assumption was also not satisfied, as the histogram and Q-Q plot of the residuals showed negatively skewed data. One potential solution to this issue is to apply nonlinear transformations of the variables, exclude long-tailed variables, or remove outliers.
Furthermore, we tested the independence assumption by analysing graphs plotting from the regression analysis and using the Durbin-Watson coefficient, which indicated that the assumption was not satisfied. 
All of the models showed a p-value of zero, indicating that the findings are statistically significant, as p-value is below the typical threshold of 0.05. While the displayed p-value may appear to be zero, it is an extremely small number, often computed with several decimal places by statistical software.
Despite Model 2 having the highest R2 value of 99.8% in the OLS Regression table, it is important to consider that violated assumptions could potentially impact the accuracy of the model and its ability to make precise predictions.
Thus, it is recommended to conduct further analysis to improve the model. Possible solutions include transforming variables, removing outliers, including lag variables or interaction terms, or adding additional variables. Implementing these solutions can help improve the model’s accuracy and provide more reliable results. A high R2 value alone is not sufficient to justify the model’s accuracy.

